Windows AD is not just intended for IAM procedures, but also provides a significant number of services to help you run and manage an organization.  
Many of these additional services are overlooked by administrators when hardening is performed, with the focus of these notes being on Active Directory Certificate Services (AD CS).

Common applications of certificates include upgrading web traffic to HTTPS, but what about traffic that is internal on an organization's network?
In this example, do you have to give applications running internally access to the internet to allow them to request a certificate from a trusted CA - the answer is no, thanks to AD CS.

AD CS is Microsoft's PKI implementation.  Since AD provides a level of trust in an organization, it can be used as a CA to prove and delegate trust.  
AD CS is used for several things such as encrypting files systems, creatnug and verifying digital signatures, and even user auth.
Particularly interesting is that certificates can survive credential rotation, meaning even if a compromised account's password is reset, that does nothing to invalidate a maliciously generated certificate.

Since AD CS is such a privileged function, it normally runs on select domain controllers, meaning little interaction occurs directly from normal users.
That being said, typically an organization will be too large to have an administrator create each certificate manually, which is where certificate templates assist.
Administrators can create several templates that allow users with the relevant permissions the ability to request a certificate themselves.
These templates have parameters that say which user can request the certificate and what is required.  - though on an interesting note, many of these parameters can be abused for priv esc and persistent access

Windows has many built-in tools that can be used to enumerate certificate templates and their associated policies.
The most commonly used of these would be "certutil", if you are on a domain-joined computer and are authticated to the domain, you can execute the following command in a window to enumerate all templates and store them in a file:
certutil -v -template > cert_templates.txt

This will likely produce a bunch of output that isnt too useful, however you will want to parse this information to see if any "toxic" paramteters have been set.
These toxic parameters will have the following:
A template where we have the relevant permissions to request the certificate or where we have an account with those permissions
A template that allows client authentication, meaning we can use it for Kerberos authentication
A template that allows us to alter the subject alternative name (SAN)

For the first parameter, we need permissions to generate a certificate request for any exploit to work.
Essentially we are looking for a template where our user has either the "Allow Enroll" or "Allow Full Control" permission.
Unfortunately, it's not as simple as grepping for the phrases above, since the certificate template permissions are in most cases assigned to AD groups.
Instead, you will most likely find groups that have the "Allow Enroll" keyword, and you would then compare tha tlist with your own groups to see if any match.
(To view your groups, run the "net user *username* /domain" command)
Two groups that are fairly common for certificates include:
domain users -> which typically means any authenticated users can request the certificate
domain computers -> which means if an attacker has admin rights over any machine, they can request a certificate on behalf of that machine

For the second parameter, once you have determined the list of certificate templates available to be requested, the next step is to ensure the certificate has the "Client Authentication" EKU.
This EKU means that the certificate can be used for Kerberos authentication.
To find these, we need to review the EKU properties of the template and ensure that the words "Client Authentication" is provided.

For the third (and final) parameter, we need to verify that the template allows us, the certificate client, to specify the SAN.  The SAN is usually something like the URL of a website we are looking to encrypt.
However, if we have the ability to control the SAN, we can leverage the certificate to actually generate a kerberos ticket for any AD account of our choosing.

To find these templates, we grep for the "CT_FLAG_ENROLLEE_SUPPLIES_SUBJECT" property flag that should be set to 1 - which indicates we can specify the SAN ourselves

Assuming that you are in an environment and are able to find an exploitable template, you can generate the certificate request through mmc.
Select "File > Add/Remove Snap-in, select the Certificates snap-in, expand and right-click "personal" > all tasks > request new certificate.

You should be able to hit next twice, then you are asked to request certificates from a dialog box that says "active directory enrollment policy".
Within here, there should be an option to input more information instead of choosing one of the defaults.
In order to ensure that the certificate can be exploited for a Kerberos ticket of a privileged user, the User Principal Name of that user is required.
This can be found using AD-RSAT tools, or some of the PowerView scripts.

