I installed sqlitebrowser and opened phpbb.sqlite3, looking through the users (specifically the phpbb_users) table, we can look at the user_ip section, and use the username associated with a public IP.

The IP here also answers the second question

For the third question, the answer can be found in the phpbb_posts, just find the poster_ip from the last question and then look at the post_ip colummn

For the fourth question, in the posts table, there is a post that contains an update.php link, that is not referenced in the access.log.  This is the answer

Task 5 was a bit annoying, if only due to the submission of the answer.  Essentially we are tasked with looking for the intiail login attempt as the administrator by a contractor.  There is a table for login attempts, however in this case it was empty.  Searching through other tables didn't really help either, nothing was relevant to the question at hand.  Going through the access.log, I first used grep to look for 'login' assuming that would be the page, however nothing stood out to me.  If you use grep to look for 'admin', you do see some pages that look more aligned with what is expected - /adm/style/admin.js?assets_version=4.  Putting two and two together, you can assume that this styling is only available to admins.  Then you can copy the first log time (not necessarily in order), then convert it to match the expected format for the question.

The answer to Task 6 can again be found in the database.  The password is contained in the phpbb_config table, which I had actually found while looking for the answers to Tasks 4/5

For task 7, we can use the phpbb_users table to locate the user_ip of the admin user, then grep for the user agent associated with this ip.

For task 8, if you just use a similar technique to grep for the word 'group' we can find a post request and use that timestamp as the answer.  (same formatting as task 5)

Task 9 is solved again with the same technique.  You just have to grep for 'sql'

For task 10 we can use the same request, then answer is just the byte size
